Question #1Topic 1
A company makes forecasts each quarter to decide how to optimize operations to meet expected demand. The company uses ML models to make these forecasts.
An AI practitioner is writing a report about the trained ML models to provide transparency and explainability to company stakeholders.
What should the AI practitioner include in the report to meet the transparency and explainability requirements?

A. Code for model training
B. Partial dependence plots (PDPs)
C. Sample data for training
D. Model convergence tables
 
Question #2Topic 1
A law firm wants to build an AI application by using large language models (LLMs). The application will read legal documents and extract key points from the documents.
Which solution meets these requirements?

A. Build an automatic named entity recognition system.
B. Create a recommendation engine.
C. Develop a summarization chatbot.
D. Develop a multi-language translation system.
 
Question #3Topic 1
A company wants to classify human genes into 20 categories based on gene characteristics. The company needs an ML algorithm to document how the inner mechanism of the model affects the output.
Which ML algorithm meets these requirements?

A. Decision trees
B. Linear regression
C. Logistic regression
D. Neural networks
 
Question #4Topic 1
A company has built an image classification model to predict plant diseases from photos of plant leaves. The company wants to evaluate how many images the model classified correctly.
Which evaluation metric should the company use to measure the model's performance?

A. R-squared score
B. Accuracy
C. Root mean squared error (RMSE)
D. Learning rate
 
Question #5Topic 1
A company is using a pre-trained large language model (LLM) to build a chatbot for product recommendations. The company needs the LLM outputs to be short and written in a specific language.
Which solution will align the LLM response quality with the company's expectations?

A. Adjust the prompt.
B. Choose an LLM of a different size.
C. Increase the temperature.
D. Increase the Top K value.

-> 짧고 특정 언어로 쓰여진 결과물을 원한다. 프롬프트 조정
 
Question #6Topic 1
A company uses Amazon SageMaker for its ML pipeline in a production environment. The company has large input data sizes up to 1 GB and processing times up to 1 hour. The company needs near real-time latency.
Which SageMaker inference option meets these requirements?

A. Real-time inference
B. Serverless inference
C. Asynchronous inference
D. Batch transform
 
-> 데이터가 크고 처리시간이 길지만, 즉시 응답(Real-time) 은 어렵고, Batch(일괄 처리)보다는 빠른 '비동기 처리'가 필요하다.
즉시 응답이 필요하진 않지만 빠른 응답이 중요한 near real-time 환경에 적합하다.
A: 즉시 응답, B: 짧은 요청, 작은 데이터, 간헐적 호출, C: 대용량 장시간처리, D: 오프라인 대량 처리

Question #7Topic 1
A company is using domain-specific models. The company wants to avoid creating new models from the beginning. The company instead wants to adapt pre-trained models to create models for new, related tasks.
Which ML strategy meets these requirements?

A. Increase the number of epochs.
B. Use transfer learning.
C. Decrease the number of epochs.
D. Use unsupervised learning.

-> 도메인 특화 모델을 사용하고 있다. 이미 학습된 모델을 활용해서 새로운 작업에 맞게 조정하고 싶다.
즉, 기존 모델을 재활용하여 새로운 작업에 적용하려고 한다.
transfer learning(전이 학습)은 이미 학습된 모델의 가중치를 활용해 새로운 작업에 맞게 일부 재학습(fine-tuning)하는 방법. 도메인이 유사할 때 효과적.
Epoch 조정은 학습 반복 횟수조정일 뿐
 
Question #8Topic 1
A company is building a solution to generate images for protective eyewear. The solution must have high accuracy and must minimize the risk of incorrect annotations.
Which solution will meet these requirements?

A. Human-in-the-loop validation by using Amazon SageMaker Ground Truth Plus
B. Data augmentation by using an Amazon Bedrock knowledge base
C. Image recognition by using Amazon Rekognition
D. Data summarization by using Amazon QuickSight Q

-> 정확도가 높아야하고 잘못된 주석(annotation) 위험을 최소화해야 한다.
핵심은 '정확한 annotation' SageMaker Ground Truth Plus는 Human-in-the-loop(HITL) 검증 기능을 제공한다. 전문 인력을 사용하여 고품질 주석을 신속하게 제공하고 비용을 최대 40% 절감하는 턴키 데이터 레이블 지정 서비스(AI가 자동으로 라벨링을 수행하되, 사람이 최종 검수(Validation)를 수행하여 정확도를 극대화하고 잘못된 주석 위험을 최소화한다.)
 
Question #9Topic 1
A company wants to create a chatbot by using a foundation model (FM) on Amazon Bedrock. The FM needs to access encrypted data that is stored in an Amazon S3 bucket. The data is encrypted with Amazon S3 managed keys (SSE-S3).
The FM encounters a failure when attempting to access the S3 bucket data.
Which solution will meet these requirements?

A. Ensure that the role that Amazon Bedrock assumes has permission to decrypt data with the correct encryption key.
B. Set the access permissions for the S3 buckets to allow public access to enable access over the internet.
C. Use prompt engineering techniques to tell the model to look for information in Amazon S3.
D. Ensure that the S3 data does not contain sensitive information.

- Pass

Question #10Topic 1
A company wants to use language models to create an application for inference on edge devices. The inference must have the lowest latency possible.
Which solution will meet these requirements?

A. Deploy optimized small language models (SLMs) on edge devices.
B. Deploy optimized large language models (LLMs) on edge devices.
C. Incorporate a centralized small language model (SLM) API for asynchronous communication with edge devices.
D. Incorporate a centralized large language model (LLM) API for asynchronous communication with edge devices.

- 언어 모델을 이용해 엣지 디바이스 상에서 추론을 수행하려한다. 요구사항은 최저 지연 시간이다.
즉, 클라우드 호출 없이 로컬에서 빠르게 처리할 수 있어야 한다.
엣지 환경에 적합한 것은 소형 모델 (SLM)
Centralized API 방식은 네트워크 왕복이 발생하여 최저 지연 요건 불만족한다.

Question #11Topic 1
A company wants to build an ML model by using Amazon SageMaker. The company needs to share and manage variables for model development across multiple teams.
Which SageMaker feature meets these requirements?

A. Amazon SageMaker Feature Store
B. Amazon SageMaker Data Wrangler
C. Amazon SageMaker Clarify
D. Amazon SageMaker Model Cards

-> 변수 공유 및 관리의 요구사항. Feature Store를 통해 여러 팀이나 모델이 동일한 feature 데이터를 재사용할 수 있어 일관성과 협업 효율성을 높일 수 있다.
 
Question #12Topic 1
A company wants to use generative AI to increase developer productivity and software development. The company wants to use Amazon Q Developer.
What can Amazon Q Developer do to help the company meet these requirements?

A. Create software snippets, reference tracking, and open source license tracking.
B. Run an application without provisioning or managing servers.
C. Enable voice commands for coding and providing natural language search.
D. Convert audio files to text documents by using ML models.

-> Q Developer는 개발자용 생성형 AI 도우미로 코드 생성/참조 및 라이선스 추적 등 기능을 제공한다.

Question #13Topic 1
A financial institution is using Amazon Bedrock to develop an AI application. The application is hosted in a VPC. To meet regulatory compliance standards, the VPC is not allowed access to any internet traffic.
Which AWS service or feature will meet these requirements?

A. AWS PrivateLink
B. Amazon Macie
C. Amazon CloudFront
D. Internet gateway
 
Question #14Topic 1
A company wants to develop an educational game where users answer questions such as the following: "A jar contains six red, four green, and three yellow marbles. What is the probability of choosing a green marble from the jar?"
Which solution meets these requirements with the LEAST operational overhead?

A. Use supervised learning to create a regression model that will predict probability.
B. Use reinforcement learning to train a model to return the probability.
C. Use code that will calculate probability by using simple rules and computations.
D. Use unsupervised learning to create a model that will estimate probability density.
 
Question #15Topic 1
Which metric measures the runtime efficiency of operating AI models?

A. Customer satisfaction score (CSAT)
B. Training time for each epoch
C. Average response time
D. Number of training instances
 
Question #16Topic 1
A company is building a contact center application and wants to gain insights from customer conversations. The company wants to analyze and extract key information from the audio of the customer calls.
Which solution meets these requirements?

A. Build a conversational chatbot by using Amazon Lex.
B. Transcribe call recordings by using Amazon Transcribe.
C. Extract information from call recordings by using Amazon SageMaker Model Monitor.
D. Create classification labels by using Amazon Comprehend.
 
Question #17Topic 1
A company has petabytes of unlabeled customer data to use for an advertisement campaign. The company wants to classify its customers into tiers to advertise and promote the company's products.
Which methodology should the company use to meet these requirements?

A. Supervised learning
B. Unsupervised learning
C. Reinforcement learning
D. Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF)
 
Question #18Topic 1
An AI practitioner wants to use a foundation model (FM) to design a search application. The search application must handle queries that have text and images.
Which type of FM should the AI practitioner use to power the search application?

A. Multi-modal embedding model
B. Text embedding model
C. Multi-modal generation model
D. Image generation model
 
Question #19Topic 1
A company uses a foundation model (FM) from Amazon Bedrock for an AI search tool. The company wants to fine-tune the model to be more accurate by using the company's data.
Which strategy will successfully fine-tune the model?

A. Provide labeled data with the prompt field and the completion field.
B. Prepare the training dataset by creating a .txt file that contains multiple lines in .csv format.
C. Purchase Provisioned Throughput for Amazon Bedrock.
D. Train the model on journals and textbooks.
 
Question #20Topic 1
A company wants to use AI to protect its application from threats. The AI solution needs to check if an IP address is from a suspicious source.
Which solution meets these requirements?

A. Build a speech recognition system.
B. Create a natural language processing (NLP) named entity recognition system.
C. Develop an anomaly detection system.
D. Create a fraud forecasting system.
 
